=== Page 1 ===
Central Bank Gold Statistics
Central banks stay the course
on gold in February
February Highlights1
• February buying: Central banks bought a net 27t in February, with activity driven by Poland (20t), a
marked rebound after a lull in January. Uzbekistan entered its fifth consecutive month of net buying (8t),
followed by Kazakhstan (8t), Czech Republic (2t), Malaysia (2t), China (1t) and Cambodia (1t). Net sellers
this month were Turkey (8t) and Russia (6t).
Notable takeaways
• Poland was the primary buyer for the month with net recorded buying at 20t, this is its highest purchase
since February 2025, which was 29t.
• Track record of net buying maintained across some central banks with Czech Republic reporting its 36th
consecutive month of net buying. China is on its 16th consecutive month of net purchases, followed by
Uzbekistan tallying five consecutive months.
• A growing number of African central banks have been reported to turn to gold as a strategic diversification
tool, to boost reserves and manage risks to the economy in international financial markets.
Central banks remain firm on gold accumulation in February, having bought a net 27t. This was a rebound from the lull
we saw in January, and in line with the monthly average of 26t reported in 2025. Just two months into the year, central
banks have bought 31t, a pace much slower than the same period last year (50t).
Chart 1: Central banks buying firm up in February
Monthly reported central banks activity, tonnes*
150
100
50
0
-50
-100
-150
Jan-22 Aug-22 Mar-23 Oct-23 May-24 Dec-24 Jul-25 Feb-26
*Data to 28 February 2026, where available.
Source: IMF, respective central banks, World Gold Council
Reported activity in February was concentrated in:
• The National Bank of Poland drove much of this month’s buying activity, having bought 20t. This brings its total gold
reserves to 570t, lifting its share of total reserves to 31%. The bank has set a target of 700t of gold, as announced by its
Governor Adam Glapiński. In a recent development, Governor Glapiński had also proposed generating US$13bn
1. Please note that this blog post was updated on 7 April 2026 to include the February purchase by the National Bank of Kazakhstan.
Central Bank Gold Statistics | Momentum eases in January while demand base broadens 01
sennoT
Gross purchases Gross sales Net

=== Page 2 ===
gold.org
through potential sale of gold reserves to finance defense spending, with the intention to “generate profits and to then
buy it back”. Details on this proposal, though, remain unclear.
• Central Bank of Uzbekistan bought 8t of gold this month, lifting its gold reserves to 407t or 88% of its total reserves.
Y-t-d, Uzbekistan bought 16t so far this year.
• National Bank of Kazakhstan added 8t to its gold reserves during the month, bringing its y-t-d net purchases to 7t.
This also lifted its total gold holdings to 348t – the highest level of since January 2023.
• Bank Negara Malaysia’s renewed interest continued into February, its second month of net purchases, adding 2t
during the month. Y-t-d net purchases total a modest 5t. Czech National Bank’s modest but consistent net purchases
brings its gold reserves to 75t ot 7% of total reserves. A similar story for the People’s Bank of China, its 16th consecutive
month of buying saw gold reserves grow to 2,308t or 10% of its total reserves.
• Turkey (8t) and Russia (6t) saw the biggest declines in gold reserves in February. In Turkey’s case, the reduction
appeared to be reflective of a decline in Treasury holdings, rather than central bank reserves based on our calculations.
In March, however, the central bank was highly active, with our estimates indicating it utilised around 50t of its gold
reserves for liquidity purposes and FX operations.2 Governor Fatih Karahan noted that: “a significant part of these
transactions are in the nature of gold-currency swap futures. In other words, when it matures, the gold in question will
return to our reserves.”3
Chart 2: Year-to-date central bank gold activity
Central bank net purchases and sales, tonnes*
Poland, Republic of
Uzbekistan, Republic of
Kazakhstan, Republic of
Malaysia
Czech Republic
China, People's Republic of
Cambodia
Indonesia
Serbia, Republic of
Kyrgyz Republic
Bulgaria
Net purchases
Türkiye, Republic of
Net sales
Russian Federation
-20 -15 -10 -5 0 5 10 15 20 25
Tonnes
*Data to 28 February 2026, where available.
Source: IMF, respective central banks, World Gold Council
African central banks look towards gold for diversification
The Bank of Uganda launched its domestic gold buying programme two years ago, with active buying commencing in
March 2026. The bank aims to purchase at least 100kg of gold between March and June this year from artisanal, medium
and large-scale domestic producers. The move is aimed to bolster reserves and cushion the economy from risks in
international financial markets. Uganda is not alone in this shift. Kenya's central bank Governor Kamau Thugge signalled
similar intentions at a news conference in early February, which alludes to a broader trend of African central banks turning
to gold as a strategic diversification tool.
Conclusion
February seems to indicate a rebound in central bank buying after a quiet January, highlighting commitment to gold’s
role in reserves. At the same time, central banks may be prudently price sensitive in their accumulation. Poland's
contribution this month highlights continued appetite from established buyers, with persistent buying streaks from
Czech Republic, China and Uzbekistan signalling sustained demand. New entrants from Southeast Asian and African
central banks suggest that the emerging market story continues.
2. Based on data to 20 March 2026.
3. Statements from CBRT Governor Karahan on gold-based transactions, Bloomberg HT, March 2026
Central Bank Gold Statistics | Central banks stay the course on gold in February 02

=== Page 3 ===
gold.org
World Gold Council
AAuutthhoorr
We are a membership organisation that champions the role gold plays as
a strategic asset, shaping the future of a responsible and accessible gold
supply chain. Our team of experts builds understanding of the use case
and possibilities of gold through trusted research, analysis, commentary
and insights.
Marissa Salim
We drive industry progress, shaping policy and setting the standards for a
Senior Research Lead, APAC
perpetual and sustainable gold market.
World Gold Council
Important information and disclosures
© 2026 World Gold Council. All rights reserved. World Gold Council and the Circle device are trademarks of the World Gold Council or its
affiliates.
The use of the statistics is permitted, in line with fair industry practice, subject to: (i) only limited extracts of data or analysis being used; and (ii)
use of a citation to the World Gold Council, and, where appropriate, to Metals Focus (a World Gold Council affiliate) or other identified copyright
owners as their source.
This information is not a recommendation or offer for the purchase or sale of gold or any gold-related products or services or any securities.
Diversification does not guarantee any investment returns and does not eliminate the risk of loss. The World Gold Council does not guarantee
or warranty the accuracy or completeness of any information or of any calculations and models used in any hypothetical portfolios or any
outcomes resulting from any such use.
This information may contain forward-looking statements which are based on current expectations and are subject to change.
Information regarding the LBMA Gold Price
The LBMA Gold Price is used by the World Gold Council with permission under license by ICE Benchmark Administration Limited and is subject
to the restrictions set forth here (www.gold.org/terms-and-conditions).
Information regarding QaurumSM and the Gold Valuation Framework
Note that the resulting performance of various investment outcomes that can generated through use of Qaurum, the Gold Valuation
Framework and other information are hypothetical in nature, may not reflect actual investment results and are not guarantees of future results.
Neither World Gold Council (including its affiliates) nor Oxford Economics provide any warranty or guarantee regarding the functionality of the
tool, including without limitation any projections, estimates or calculations.
Central Bank Gold Statistics | Central banks stay the course on gold in February 03